Title: STUFF.

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

STUFF. is a 5 piece live band that brings a cross genre groove, spanning from broken hip-hop to more electronic and jazz influenced future funk. They defy easy categorisation. Writing for Jazz Standard, Tina Edward said ‘If an energy drink could make music, it would sound like STUFF.‘, a description that does more to describe their sound than established genre tags. Utilising lesser-used instruments like the wind synth, alongside the familiar array of drums and electric bass, synthesizers and turntables, they’re able scatter rhythms, melodies and electronic effects across their canvas with a Pollock-like abandon, creating music that while heavy in groove has great depth and intrigue.

They released their self-titled debut album March 2015 to critical acclaim and embarked on a sold out club tour in Benelux, Germany, UK and Ireland short after.
Several tracks of their debut gained airplay on UK stations BBC6 and BBC1 as well as Belgian nationwide stations StuBru & Radio 1. They kept on touring with the album till the end of 2016 and played nearly 150 shows throughout Europe on very divers stages, showing their eclectic style: renowned jazzfestivals like North Sea Jazz Festival (Nl) , Elbjazz Hamburg (De) and Gent Jazz (Be); alternative festivals like Lowlands (Nl), Pukkelpop (Be), Dour Festival (Be)  and Shambala festival (UK); urban/hiphop festivals like Couleur Café (Brussels) and Les Ardentes (Liège) and electronic festivals like Dimensions (Pula) and Fusion (Lärz Germany). 

At the end of 2015 the band was mentioned in several end of the year lists and the group got numerous music prices in the home country for best album of the year, best live, breakthrough of the year, best artwork. 2016 brought more clubshows in Europe, a new show with all new music called Hybrid Love and the recording and mixing of the new album ‘old dreams new planets’ released April 2017. This latest album got again raving reactions and topped the charts in their home country Belgium. Quite crazy considering this is instrumental music with virtually no airplay.

In 2018 the band got signed by Gondwana, the independent Manchester-based label that released GoGo Penguin, Matthew Halsall, Portico Quartet, Mamal Hands, etc

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: https://soundcloud.com/stuffmusic