Title: Salute
----
Text: Currently residing in Brighton where he studies, Felix Nyajo aka salute was born and raised in Vienna, and thus joins an illustrious group of electronic musicians (MOTSA, Sohn etc.) who have found inspiration and solace within the great European city. And while salute is shaped by his upbringing in Vienna, his musical taste as a teenager are heavily influenced by UK bass culture and US Hip-Hop/trap – citing the likes of Hudson Mohwake, Cashmere Cat and Rustie as influences. His inspirations are however not solely limited to the electronic spectrum and Nyajo takes much inspiration from a variety of sounds, spanning decades of musical history – for example he takes great influence from 1970s funk. Crucially though, Nyajo’s ear matches his scope and ambition with the salute project and although he only started making music in 2012, Nyajo’s compositions have ranged from hip-hop beats to synth-led electronics, which showcase melodic, energetic and harsh elements to his production work.

Having now made headway into his breakthrough after launching his debut EP, salute has garnered much deserved attention from a plethora of tastemakers, award committees and other associations. The blogosphere was set alight upon the release of the ‘Gold Rush’ EP, which showcased Nyajo’s ability to produce soulful melodies, while directly aiming for the hips and the dancefloor. ‘Gold Rush’s impact is hard to ignore and has found huge support from a swath of influential editorial sites including The Fader, HypeTrak, and Dummy.

Further recognition for salute’s work has come from the Amadeus Award Committee, where he was nominated in 2014 for the prestigious FM4 Award, which has also seen the likes of Cid Rim and Klangkarussell nominated in previous years. Moreover, he is a Red Bull Music Academy Bass Camp alumnus from the 2013 edition in Vienna.

After playing numerous festival slots and shows with the likes of Caribou, What So Not, Cid Rim and Rustie, 2015 has been instrumental for salute and continues to be the breakthrough year for this enviable talent.

Beyond his series of stand out releases in 2015, salute has also reveled in the launch of Dime Club, a label and club night that has taken off in his adopted him town of Brighton. Looking ahead Felix continues his illustrious relationship with revered imprint 37 Adventures for a follow up EP to ‘Gold Rush’ set to drop in early 2016.

(oembed: https://soundcloud.com/saluteaut)
