Title: Marshmello
----
Text: One white helmet. Two blacked-out eyes. And a loveable smile. Say hello to the new face of electronic music: Marshmello. As one of the latest acts to take the electronic world by universal storm, Marshmello met the most meteoric rise right from the get-go. The enigmatic producer continues in a long line of music makers putting sound and artistry ahead of image and ego. The mystery artist dons a fully enclosed marshmallow helmet, completely hiding the musician in seemingly plain sight. Rather than use the masked approach as a marketing gimmick, Marshmello instead employs it to echo his driving ethos: Let the music speak for itself. And so it does—very loudly and very clearly.

Marshmello experienced almost immediate renown upon launching the project in March 2015 solely on the success of a handful of originals and remixes just a year ago, with tracks like “SuMmeR,” “FiNd Me,” “BLocKs,” and more paving the way. Following this string of mysterious music came a media blitz from all the reputable electronic and global music outlets—with international digital retailer Beatport crowning him a Breakthrough Artist in 2015—as well as an army of soon-to-be fanatics, lovingly dubbed his Mellogang, with both camps literally trying to unmask Marshmello. His crafted brand of feel-good melodies and trapped-out dirty bliss is both uplifting and unabashedly intense. It’s enough to fill a stadium with unison sing-alongs while demolishing worldwide dancefloors within the same beat. Game recognizes game, and soon after debuting, dance music heavyweights Skrillex and Diplo sought Marshmello for an official remix of their Jack Ü mega hit, “Where Are Ü Now” with Justin Bieber. Elsewhere, Marshmello has done official remixes of fellow superstars Avicii, Zedd, Ariana Grande.

Now, Marshmello stands at the top of his game with his debut album, Joytime. Unleashed in January 2016 as a surprise release, Joytime—a compilation of his previously available tracks—placed in the Top 100 overall iTunes chart and topped the iTunes Electronic Albums chart at #1 upon its first day of release. Additionally, Joytime landed in the Top 5 on Billboard’s Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart and also made moves across the Heatseekers Albums and Independent Albums charts. The album also gained considerable momentum across various Billboard charts on the strength of power single “Keep It Mello” featuring rapper Omar LinX, which placed on the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs, Dance/Electronic Digital Songs, and the Spotify Viral 50 charts. A critical and commercial success, Joytime proves Marshmello’s prowess as a songwriter and producer with crossover potential.

On the live front, Marshmello dominates the stage via his highly anticipated and hyper-frenetic DJ sets. Armed with the iconic white marshmallow helmet, the masked producer releases an unmatched level of amped-up energy that's carried across a sonic vehicle of blood-pumping bass and hip-hop and trap ruggedness, all the while embracing pop-laden grooves and melodies at the core. His performances have gained him notoriety across the live music and festival circuit, garnering him high-profile performances at Ultra Music Festival, HARD Day of the Dead, Beyond Wonderland, and more, with an upcoming debut at mega festival Electric Daisy Carnival Las Vegas in June 2016. He’s also headlined his solo Keep It International Tour, a 29-date trek in which all shows were sold out in advance, along with an Australian tour featuring multiple festival performances. As the layers of mystery continue to surround Marshmello, so too does the hype. Whether the world uncovers the man behind the mask is never the focus. Rather, the music within is what unites Marshmello to his beloved, growing Mellogang and the greater music world as a whole.

“I just want to make good music,” proclaims Marshmello. “That doesn't require you knowing who I am.”



(oembed: https://soundcloud.com/marshmellomusic)
