Title: Joe Armon-Jones

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

Even amongst Britain’s vibrant modernist jazz scene, Joe Armon-Jones stands out as a remarkable talent. A virtuoso keyboardist, he possesses that rare ability to stay true to the genres roots while also connecting with a wider, more youthful audience. 
Spinning unrestrained into hip-hop, funk and dub, his tracks also often pulsate with a feverish, punk-infused energy.

Now Joe Armon-Jones returns with his new single ‘Icy Roads (Stacked)’. It’s a head-spinning blend of luminous jazz-funk piano and synths, skittering, off-kilter percussion and a languorous ear-worm bass. As with the best of his work, ‘Icy Roads (Stacked)’ places his cerebral compositions into an engaging, club- friendly context.
While Armon-Jones is at the top of his game, the track’s fluid grooves are heightened by two similarly exceptional musicians. 
Kwake Bass, an in-demand drummer who’s worked with Kate Tempest, Sampha and Joey Bada$$, switches the beat seemingly effortlessly from frenetic to laid-back. His skills are perfectly complemented by Mutale Chashi, bassist of London Afrobeats collective KOKOROKO.

Released on digital now and vinyl formats on June 28, ‘Icy Roads (Stacked)’ features striking artwork which pays homage to Herbie Hancock’s 1974 album ‘Thrust’. The vinyl is backed with an exclusive b- side, the gloriously loose and languid ‘Aquarius’.
‘Icy Roads (Stacked)’ is Joe Armon-Jones’ first taste of his forthcoming second album. It follows his 2018 debut ‘Starting Today’ which earned praise from Pitchfork, Loud & Quiet, The Wire and more. The six- track collection is now approaching 3 million streams.
Armon-Jones recently played a sold-out homecoming show at London’s Village Underground. It’s the latest in a series of high profile performances which have included Boiler Room and Radio 6’s UK Jazz Special at Maida Vale, which was hosted by Gilles Peterson. His growing acclaim resulted in him being nominated for UK Jazz Act of the Year at the 2019 Jazz FM Awards.

In addition to his solo career, Armon-Jones is a member of the influential Ezra Collective, and has played with the likes of Pharaoh Monch, Nubya Garcia and Ata Kak.

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: >
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R1Li_bri66k