Title: Denzel Curry
----
Text: Straight from the depths of Blackland Carol City (Zone 3 to be exact), Denzel "Aquarius'Killa" Curry sometimes known as "Raven Miyagi" emerged on the underground hip hop scene with a vintage sound similar to the Memphis's underground scene of the early/mid 90's. A former member of Spaceghost Purrp's Raider Klan Collective the young emcee picked up the pen at age 12 making Music, Art (Denzel attended Design &amp; Architecture High his first two years of High School. He designs all of his own artwork), &amp; studying Martial Arts his hobbies as a kid. He started taking music seriously at age 16 releasing his first mix tape &amp; Building his following online. His Feature on fellow underground artist Lil Ugly Mane's "Twistin" catapulted him into the spotlight shortly after, being featured on BBC Radio overseas. After releasing 3 successful lo fi mix tapes and building a following, Record deal or not Denzel set out to work on his first album leaving lo fi in the past. In November of 2012 while still in High school he released the albums first street single in "Dark &amp; Violent" which started to get him critical praise for his storytelling skills at the tender age of 17. Shortly after Denzel released the followup/lead single in "Threatz" &amp; went on to shoot a video for it, The video landed on MTV and aired on National television via Rap Fix with Sway Calloway, even impressing Waka Flocka who was named checked in the song. The following month Denzel performed live with Raider Klan at Coachella, and made his second television appearance via AXS LIVE performing new single "N64" in where he spoke out about the Trayvon Martin Murder &amp; violence in south Florida. From headlining Miami's First Boiler Room, to doing shows across the country (all while finishing up high school), to releasing his debut album Nostalgic 64 independently and receiving great reviews Denzel is on a mission to insure that traditional southern hip hop never dies and lyricism is brought back to the forefront of Hip Hop.
(oembed: https://soundcloud.com/denzelcurryph)
