Title: Wayne Snow

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

[✉ booking request](mailto:info@emerged-agency.com)          
****     
There’s an undeniable warmth to Wayne Snow’s music, one that combines a contemporary
take on the sun kissed, soulful vibes of his homeland with neo-soul, alternative pop,
soultronica, and jazz. His musical heritage and upbringing in Nigeria listening to artists like
Sade, King Sunny Ade, Marvin Gaye, and Fela Kuti shines through, as does a deep respect
and love for Afrofuturism. It’s an integral part of his musical journey, a quest to shape
sounds and express his vision of the future. Like Sun Ra before him, his goal is expansion –
to situate his art on a different plane altogether, and to explore how music can inform the
mind.
A relocation to Berlin in 2013 gave Wayne Snow the space for this exploration, and a
renewed sense of purpose. “I found myself as an artist there,” he says. “I was free to do
whatever I wanted.” Starting over, he crafted a new sound and style – critical acclaim and
devoted fans soon followed. Wayne Snow also found kindred souls, and embarked on
fruitful collaborations. Alongside Max Graef, with whom he wrote ‘Under The Moon’ and
‘Red Runner’ – both featured on his Red Runner EP, released via Tartelet Records – he was
central to Berlin’s burgeoning future jazz / neo soul scene; as part of Moe Fabrik, he was
instrumental in the emergence of nu jazz.
All of this was swirled into the self-assured statement of artistic freedom that was his debut
album on Tartelet Records. Vibrant and eclectic, Freedom TV effortlessly combined a
plethora of genres and won deserved plaudits from the likes of Clash, MOJO, The Fader,
Vice, Boiler Room, and influential tastemaker Giles Peterson. Buoyed by the record’s
success, Wayne Snow continued to develop his artistry, working with FKJ and regular
collaborator Darius on the Nightbirds project with Roche Musique, releasing tracks via
Brownswood, Dekmantel, and Rhythm Section, and adding his sublime, magical vocals to
productions from the likes of Folamour, Neue Graffik, and Noah Slee.
His work is alive in the truest sense, naturally channeling his Nigerian DNA and the rhythms
of his upbringing. It’s no surprise that he’s drawn to bass and drums – “I make them ‘talk’”,
he says – or that he sees melodies as colour, to be swirled and mixed to shift moods and
feelings. Live, he’s a revelation, possessing an absolute mastery of the stage that’s won over
crowds from London’s Shepherds Bush Empire to Berlin’s Arena and beyond. Millions of
listeners on Spotify further attest to his global appeal, with both Crack and Clash shortlisting
him as the next artist to breakthrough.
Latest project Figurine, released by Roche Musique, is his most personal and ambitious to
date, one based around a simple question - “Who is the real you?” – that led Wayne Snow
to explore rebirth, individuality, and our obsession with social media. Produced by Crayon,
and featuring acclaimed jazz-guitarist Oscar Jerome, the record is studied and stylish, quiet
passages of calm giving way to vivid bursts of energy and colour. Figurine’s visual identity
and the accompanying videos have been crafted by the album’s Art Director Travys Owen, a
collaboration in every sense with another truly visionary artist. That ever-present sense of
life is palpable; his music, and the message it conveys, is as vital as ever.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/artist/4f44GWlEQdXaWl8gQ9sPBC" width="1000" height="300" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: https://soundcloud.com/waynesnow