Title: Mr Oizoo

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

Mr. Oizo (pronounced 'Monsieur Wah-zoh') is the nom de plume for French music producer Quentin Dupieux. 
Born in 1974, Quentin Dupieux showed interest in technology at the very young age of 12 when he recorded his first videos. His work was from then on always an intelligent mix of sound and image. He started first to work on short films, which he also sold to Canal +, a French private TV channel. He then met Laurent Garnier, for whom he created his first sound clip for the track „Nightmare Sandwiches“
Dupieux is most famous for his electro track "Flat Beat", which became a hit all across Europe in 1999 for being featured in a series of Levi's jeans TV advertisements. Dupieux also directed the ad, which featured a yellow puppet named Flat Eric nodding his head to the sound of the track while riding in a pickup truck. Flat Eric later appeared in the music video for "Flat Beat". Sales go up to 3 million and the track was n°1 in charts of many European countries.
Dupieux released his first EP's "#1" and "M-Seq" on F Communications in 1997. After "Flat Beat", Oizo released his first album in 1999, Analog Worms Attack, featuring a single of the same name. 
In 2005, Oizo released his second album entitled Moustache (Half a Scissor). In this second record, less influenced by house music as the previous one, Mr Oizo tend to use breakbeats and cut up techniques so as to create a new  set of atmosphere. 
In 2006 and 2007, Oizo produced remixes for Kavinsky, Jamelia, Cassius, Scissor Sisters and Calvin Harris.  
Dupieux's first feature film, Steak, was released in France on June 20th, 2007, which soundtrack was made from the trio formed by Mr. Oizo, Sebastien Tellier and SebastiAn.
In 2007, Mr. Oizo's Transexual EP was released on Ed Banger Records (Busy P’s records). The EP features a re- working of the 1979 disco track "Do It At The Disco" by Gary's Gang. The track appeared on Oizo's MySpace page in 2006 under the title Patrick122. 
In 2008 Mr. Oizo released his third album, Lambs Anger, containing solid, hard, over- compressed, in-your-face dance tracks. The Positif EP was released in November, which featured remixes from Mr. Flash and LFO (Low Frequency Oscillation) 
Then in 2008 he works on a new album (LAMBS ANGER), on UFFIE’s ALBUM and prepares a new feature-length film (REALITE) that he plans to shoot in 2009.

In March of 2009 Mr. Oizo released the Pourriture EP, featuring a remix of Erreur Jean 
by Arveene and Misk as well as some "radical reworks" by Oizo himself. A remix of the track "Z" was released as a Beatport exclusive. Also included in the download was a short film by Oizo, titled "Making Lamb's Anger". 
In 2010, Quentin Dupieux directed the movie Rubber, which main character is a serial killer rubber and created its’ soundtrack with Gaspard Augé from the duo Justice.
In November of 2011, Mr. Oizo followed up Lambs Anger with Stade 2, a new release for Ed Banger Records. Slowly releasing the album through club nights and Twitter, Stade 2 further refines the style that he displayed on Lambs Anger, providing tracks for headphones and the dance floor. 
In January 2012 he started a music project with Boys Noize called Handbraekes. 
In April 2012 Mr. Oizo released an EP called Stade 3, which is available for free on the Internet. He also directed the Stade 3 Teaser where Flat Eric is starring again. 

In January 2015, his fifth album The Church recorded in Los Angeles was released. 
In his last LP released last year, third for legendary Parisian label Ed Banger Records and Because Music, Mr Oizo has invited friends to collaborate, ranging from Skrillex to punk-electro pop star and performance artist Peaches, pop hook genius Charli XCX plus established electro masters Boys Noize and Siriusmo to name but a few. This isn’t a features album per se, it’s wall to wall Oizo production with a few curveballs thrown in.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/artist/0b9ukmbg0MO5eMlorcgOwz" width="1000" height="300" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: https://soundcloud.com/oizo-mr-3000