Title: T. Williams
----
Text: There's something to be said for getting noticed, for standing out from the crowd. Standing out for the right reasons though isn't always the case. London's T.Williams is one of those'right' cases, having accomplished a full sweep of merited recognition over the last few years. Emerging onto the house scene in 2010, T.Williams instantly marked himself as a breakthrough artist with a difference; his unique take on house music turning heads.

Whilst he may appear new to the house scene, Tesfa Williamsis far from a newcomer to music with a decade of experience behind him in the grime scene as Dread.D. Signed at the tender age of 17 to Jon E Cash's Black Ops with 'Invasion',Williams went on to have mass success in the grime and bass world selling thousands of singles worldwide. After a five year reign, Williams found himself veering towards the world of house music.

With a new found love of house and its sub-genres, T.Williamshas since forged a sound signature that blends his grime days, dubstep, bass music and the evolution into house. With a style that undoubtedly impacts, T.Williams' crossover sound has been the catalyst for his success. Not only rife with groove and feeling but meticulously produced and engineered, deep rumbling bass lines collide with the aggressive bounce of grime, house vocals bleed through intricate percussion work and calypso swing and African undertones ricochet off hard edged dub.

Whilst 2010 begged the industry to sit up and take notice with productions such as the hit record 'Heartbeat' featuring vocalist Terri Walker played extensively worldwide and reaching no.2 as iTunes best dance tracks of the year, it was throughout 2011 that T.Williams defined himself, releasing solo works on his own Deep Teknologi imprint, Local Action andPattern, Williams' remixes for Maya Jane Coles, Ben Westbeech and Skream were also received with high regard. Not stopping at pricking the ears of fellow artists and those of the dancefloor, the end of 2011 saw T.Williams nominated as'Best Breakthrough DJ' by DJ Mag, named as one of the 'DJ Stars of 2012' by Time Out and picked by The Guardian for his Fact Magazine mix as one of their favourites of the year.

In 2012 two relationships then came to the fore that propelledWilliams to greater heights. The first was his weekly show on the legendary (and now fully legal) London FM radio station,Rinse FM, a show that has featured the likes of Jessie Ware,Soul Clap, MK, Dusky and Duke Dumont guest; culminating in T mixing Rinse 21, one of the most vital of the renowned mix series yet.

The second was Williams' relationship with one the hottest labels of the moment, PMR - home to Jessie Ware, Disclosureand Cyril Hahn - beginning, via his remix of Javeon McCarthy's 'Lost Time'. The remix was made Record of the Week by BBC Radio 1 breakfast show host Nick Grimshaw, and also picked up plays from Annie Mac, Jaymo &amp; Andy George and Fearne Cotton. From here the relationship blossomed, Tesfa signing to the label exclusively and releasing his debut EP for the label, 'Pain &amp; Love' in September 2012, and in the process picking up another ROTW from Grimshaw, and this time plays from 7 different Radio 1 DJs. From there further remixes of Mikky Ekko, Wretch 32 and Lianne La Havas followed suit with extensive online and radio support, as well as his biggest to date, of 'Latch' by Disclosure, which at the time was the 3rd hottest track on Soundcloud, receiving over 200,000 plays to date.

The latter half of 2013 has seen three US tours, multiple worldwide festival appearances, a place on Red Bull Music Academy 2013 in New York, and a second EP for PMR. The'Feelings Within' EP once again spans a number of bases, with club bangers and heartfelt vocal driven tracks alike. On 31st October 2013, T.Williams returns to the radio to man his own monthly 'In New DJs We Trust' show on BBC Radio 1 - 2014 looks ever brighter for the West Londoner.

(oembed: https://soundcloud.com/twilliamsmusic)
