Title: Youngblood Brass Band
----
Text: Youngblood Brass Band destroys convention. They are focused on creating consistently progressive, acoustic, groundbreaking music, employing whatever sonic means necessary to do so. This nine- member ensemble hails from all over these sprawled United States (Madison, WI / New York, NY / San Francisco, CA / Chicago, IL) and sound absolutely focused on unleashing new music to the rest of the world.

To that aim, they have been touring throughout Europe and the United States for the past five years. Having performed in over a dozen countries and at some of the most prestigious music festivals
– Roskilde, Lowlands, Pukkelpop, Glastonbury, Womad, etc.

– don’t expect the band to slow down now. Their breathtaking concerts secured their status as an incredible group to see live whether it’s in an intimate small club setting or an international festival stage.

Their debut album Unlearn was independently released in 2000 and featured collaborations with rapper Talib Kweli (which spawned the underground smash single “Ya’ll Stay Up”), Mike Ladd, DJ Skooly and ex-Frank Zappa vocalist Ike Willis. The attention garnered from the album lead to a record deal with Ozone Music (NYC), the revolutionary avant-hiphop label that introduced the poetic talents and radical aims of Company Flow (El-P), Mike Ladd, Antipop Consortium, Mr. Lif and Saul Williams among others. Their highly anticipated follow-up in 2003 Center:Level:Roar was released to international acclaim and had them trekking around the globe to nearly sold out audiences everywhere.

YoungBlood are now primed for an even bigger stage with the launch of their record label Layered Music who have signed an international distribution deal through All City/PIAS. Layered Music is a division of their founded Layered Arts Collective based in Madison, Wisconsin and Brooklyn, New York.




This organization functions as an independent record label, literature and sheet music publishing company, recording studio and forum for like-minded artists, students and educators working together to build a community focused on igniting the local and global populace with arts and education related opportunities. They have been dedicated to this work for years, and songs from the YoungBlood catalogue will now be available as marching and big band arrangement through Warner Bros. Publications.

With a brand new record label, flourishing local arts
collective, DIY punk aesthetic, worldwide educational aim,
incredible stage performances and plenty of raging
ambition, YoungBlood Brass Band is poised to become a
torch-bearer for a new kind of artist – one implanted in schools around the world by the good grace of public radio (their NPR
appearance in 2004 is already the stuff of media legend) and held in high regard by new music aficionados the world over.

We will do what we must.

(oembed: https://soundcloud.com/youngbloodbrassband)
