Title: Shafiq Husayn

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

The story of Shafiq Husayn is a very interesting and winding journey. The legendary, Multi Platinum producer, artist, Grammy Award Winning performer, songwriter, band member, father, minister and humanitarian has worked with a host of some of the world’s most influential artist in the past 30 years. 

 Born in Cleveland, Ohio and reared in Los Angeles and later in New York, he started his professional career as a member of the Nile Kings, a group signed to Ice T’s Rhyme Syndicate/Sony Records, consisting of Prince Sudan, D-Cipher, Justice and SLJ (Shafiq). Their 12′ single “Dropping Bombs”, “Listen To The Light” & “Positive Sounds” was a underground classic and displayed the early talents of Shafiq as a producer and beat-maker that he has become famous the world over. 

 He is a part-founder and 1/3 of the Legendary Los Angeles based group SA-RA™ the creative collective which consist of Grammy Award Winning Producers Om’Mas Keith (Frank Ocean -Channel Orange) and Taz Arnold (Dr. Dre – Chronic 2001, Kendrick Lamar – To Pimp A Butterfly) 

 In 2009, Shafiq released his first solo project, the critically acclaimed album “Shafiq En’ A- Free-Ka”.  

 He is the also the founder of the Dove Society, a Los Angeles based creative collective which spawned the likes of Anderson Paak and the Free Nationals, Jimetta Rose, Via Leaves.also 1/2 of Kron Don & Shafiq Husayn which released the critically acclaimed “White Boiz, Neighborhood Wonderful” on the Stones Throw Records label. 

 He has produced for the likes of Erykah Badu, Kanye West, Andre 3000, John Legend, Hiatus Kaiyote, Thundercat, Bilal, Ice T, Lord Finesse, Ty Dollar $ign, and many others. 
 In 2013 Shafiq was featured on the lead song, “Lift Off” on Robert Glasper’s Grammy Award Winning R&B Album of the Year “Black Radio“. 

 Shafiq Husayn carries the music torch by importing and exporting sounds and genres into an otherworldly whole but always rooting back to a beats‐and‐rhymes basis. From Fela‐Kuti style horns, Brazilian drums, to cod‐operative crooning, Shafiq’s music is a world sampler.  

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: https://soundcloud.com/shafiq-husayn