Title:

Club Cheval

----

Toplinks:


----

Text:

Canblaster, Sam Tiba, Myd and Panteros666 are the Club Cheval – « cheval » meaning « horse » in French. Juvenile yet mature, erudite but fun-loving, they started making music together around 2006: Myd and Panteros launched a dance-punk outfit called Sexual Earthquake in Kobe, for which Canblaster sometimes collaborated. After a touring year SEIK took a break and the Club Cheval entity took shape around 2009 when one of Panteros’ schoolmates called Sam Tiba joined the crew, adding a different touch to the soundscape due to its Jamaican/Black American music background.
The quartet now has a masterplan: building future perspectives for club music through solo tracks releases sharing a common identity. The first instalments came out in 2010: the split « Club Cheval » EP, Myd’s fierce « Train to Bamako », Sam Tiba’s insane « Barbie Weed » and Canblaster’s irresistible « Jetpack ». By the end of the year, hot Parisian label Sound Pellegrino released Panteros’ « Kegstand » EP.
As for now, Myd, Canblaster and Sam Tiba have released tracks on the first Marble Compilation, called Season 1, out on February 24, 2014. It also features tracks from the Parisian label creators, ala Para One, Surkin and Bobmo. The Club Cheval boys have toured a lot those past years and worked hard on their respective solos carriers. They are now taking their time to work on their first album that should be out early 2015.
With Club Cheval, you never really know where you’ve landed, yet you feel at home among these guys who speak this unknown and tasty language. You hear echoes of plenty of things you love here – the curvy, bass-heavy swing of London carnival music, the hectic « cabaret » mixing style, all these washes of melodic sweetness coming from Detroit via Tokyo, IDM’s flamboyant nerdism, and many other music micro- worlds –, except they’re being pronounced with a different accent, another tone. When working on their tracks, Club Cheval members all share a soft spot for whimsical structures and funny accidents that it’s just making it more flavour-rich and exhilarating. But you stay hooked to this striking impression that you’re entering a new land in which you want to spend as much time as you like. So take your time, and enjoy the adventure.

----

Bottomlinks:

-
  url: >
    https://soundcloud.com/clubcheval

----

