Title: Keys N Krates

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

Since forming a decade ago in their native Toronto, Keys N Krates have carved their own path via a basscentric, sample-driven sound which melds the realms of electronic, hip-hop and beyond. 
The group - composed of drummer Adam Tune, keyboardist David Matisse and turntablist Jr. Flo. - has built a venerable reputation as one of the leading live electronic acts today on the strength of their onstage instrumentation and energetic sets. Keys N Krates now elevate their craft with Cura, their debut artist album.

Reflecting a sonic evolution many years in the making, Cura sees Keys N Krates evolving from revered instrumental beat-makers into musically sophisticated producers and songwriters. 
Cura embodies Keys N Krates’ matured style of now: soulful electronic music created with an organic touch, allowing for open experimentation and sonic curiosity. 

Keys N Krates first broke into the mainstream with the SOLOW EP (Dim Mak, 2013), featuring the breakthrough single “Dum Dee Dum,” which recently received gold certification in the US in 2017. 
Since its release, the track’s cheeky official music video was nominated for a Prism Prize by the Association for Music and Innovative Arts in Canada as well as a Berlin Music Video Award in Germany in 2014. 
In 2013, the group later released a remix of the track featuring a collection of buzzing Chicago-based rappers, including G.O.O.D. Music’s Cyhi the Prynce as well as King Louie and Tree. Elsewhere, the group released “Keep It 100” (Mad Decent, 2014), a collaboration with producer/DJ Grandtheft, which was featured in a trailer for the animated film 'Minions' in 2015 and won for Best EDM/Dance Video in the 2015 Much Music Video Awards in Canada. In 2016, Keys N Krates took home their first win at the Juno Awards in Canada in the Dance Recording of the Year category for their song “Save Me,” off the Midnite Mass EP (Dim Mak, 2016), featuring British singer/songwriter Katy B. 
The group’s discography also includes the Every Nite EP (Dim Mak, 2014) as well as numerous remixes.

Originally formed as a live hip-hop act in 2008, Keys N Krates have since logged countless hours on the road via a relentless tour schedule and have been recognized for advancing the live performance aspect within electronic music. 
They have headlined their own tours and performed high-profile sets at the top international music festivals including Coachella, Sónar, Bonnaroo, Lollapalooza, Tomorrowland, EDC Las Vegas, Pukkelpop, Bestival and more.

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: https://soundcloud.com/keysnkrates