Title: Wiki

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

In 2009 Patrick 'Wiki' Morales, a Puerto Rican-Irish mutt teenager, was looking to explore beyond his born neighborhood of the intellectually rich, culturally diverse area of the Upper West Side of Manhattan. And like every kid his age, Wiki was itching to explore the underbelly of the island - downtown Manhattan. It's a migration that's cultivated the 23-year-old young rapper we know today: an authentic New York City analyst who has become the voice of a generation, making Wiki one in a million.

Out of the dark, damp basements and hot crowded galleries of downtown Manhattan, is where Ratking defied the odds and began to sprout. Through the guidance of downtown creatives Aaron Bondaroff and Ari Marcopoulos and like-minded outsiders, Wiki, Sporting Life, Hak formed Ratking soon releasing 'Wiki93' (2012) and 'So It Goes' (2014). Released to rave reviews, Ratking catapulted into a world of local underground success, proving to a new generation of hip hop listeners that the rules of the past can be broken albeit with respect. Out of Ratking grew new genres of hip hop, a resurgence in DIY production and a shrewd lyricist in Wiki, whose youthful observations of Manhattan's chaotic ecosystem were extraordinary.

No longer under the protective shelter of adolescence, Wiki accepted his destiny and stepped out on his own. Using the lessons of his collective efforts with Ratking, Wiki took on adulthood and independence within Lil Me, his 2015 mixtape on Letter Racer. Tackling issues of life on the road, coming of age in Manhattan, first loves, bad blood, and all the emotional reckoning in between the two extremes. Bringing on board old friends - producer Alex Epton, Sporting Life, King Krule - and experimenting with some new ones too - Skepta, Kaytranada, Black Mack - Wiki stepped out and up on Lil Me turning to himself, instead of Manhattan, to be the protagonist of his first solo effort.

In 2015 Wiki retreated to XL Recordings downtown Manhattan studio to start work on his first, official album 'No Mountains In Manhattan'.
During the year and a half process, Wiki worked with past contributors and the team naturally around him, to focus on creating a new sound for his beloved city. To drive at the intended goal, Wik consciously called upon three generations of New York MCs in Ghostface Killa, Your Old Droog, Slicky Boy and ACAB as the only guest verses. To correlate with the perspectives of the city, Tony Seltzer, KAYTRANADA, Sporting Life, Earl Sweatshirt, Alex Epton and others worked along with Wiki to provide a variety of sounds that speak to the chaotic atmosphere of the city itself.

'No Mountains In Manhattan' is Patrick 'Wiki' Morales thesis on present day Manhattan. Provided by his studies of the streets of his city. Illuminated by the hyperbole of his imagination. A bibliography filled with names from the community that nurtured him. Bringing to life the sounds of his city that give pulse to the cast of characters that give Manhattan it's soul, 'No Mountains In Manhattan' demonstrates that Wiki is the city's bard, telling the stories of now to be heard by generations to come

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: https://soundcloud.com/wikset