Title:

Hudson Mohawke

----

Toplinks:


----

Text:

Ross Birchard is the one of the most exciting record producers to come out of Scotland in the last ten years, seducing rap-heads and ravers alike with his neon-lit R&amp;B and warehouse smashing low-end beats. Now, as the unlikely poster boy for a new generation of genre-mangling UK artists, he's touring his live festival &amp; club shows across the globe &amp; producing for chart- topping urban-pop names like Kanye West, Chris Brown and Azealia Banks.

Hip Hop has always been at Birchard始s beating heart. A champion DJ by 15 he emerged in his late teens as Hudson Mohawke, a founding member of the record label LuckyMe at the creative nexus of Glasgow's electronic scene - a neo-noir comic book character determined to redefine the 'super producer': a role where the underground is the mainstream and the rule book fits in 140 characters or less.

He is certainly on course. HudMo, as he is affectionately known, quickly became Glasgow始s secret weapon; signing album deals from early demos with the gold standard of electronic music Warp Records. Among the ranks of Aphex Twin, Boards of Canada, Squarepusher, Flying Lotus and fellow LuckyMe cohort Rustie, he continues to perfect his sound: classic soul samples siphoned through bombastic air horns, heart-aching top line melody floating above rattling half-time tempos. A truly modern artist belonging to true-hip hop始s lineage, but equally inspired by the pop/soul hybrids of Quincy Jones. The main room happy hardcore rave and the deep, dark roots of techno are all viscerally acknowledged in this music - even at it's most pop.

Hudson Mohawke has been a name present in hotlists since his first LP outting 'Butter' back in 2009, but it appears 2012 is his brightest yet. New credits seem to emerge daily from the highest ranks of the majors. He's tasted the US Billboard charts with one of the year始s best received EPs as TNGHT (alongside Montreal's Lunice). With recent love from Rolling Stone, Fader, NME, Spin, The Guardian, Dazed, The Independent, Vice, Notion, XLR8R, Fact &amp; many more - Hudson Mohawke maintains that holy ground between cult DJ and arena-smashing producer. He packs out shows from Shoreditch to SXSW causing avid moshpits and roadblock queues to a young, smart and open minded audience. Who else today unites the affections of Kanye West to Bjork, Just Blaze to Battles, Drake to Fourtet. This is no longer the hot name we're waiting for the world to catch up on - from the ground up to the top down people know Hudson Mohawke is ready to change the game.

----

Bottomlinks:

-
  url: >
    https://soundcloud.com/hudsonmohawke

----

