Title: Derya Yıldırım & Grup Şimşek

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

Born in 2014, Grup Şimşek is an «outernational» band with members hailing from five different countries – Turkey, Germany, UK, France, Italy. They actually also live completely all spread out all over Europe making this continent as unite as possible.   The line-up: DERYA YILDIRIM, talented Turkish singer and multi-instrumentist; 3 musicians from London/France-based collective Catapulte Records (ANDREA PIRO, GRAHAM MUSHNIK and ANTONIN VOYANT from l’Orchestre du Montplaisant); and GRETA EACOTT, British composer and percussionist (G-Bop Orchestra, One Take Records).  The 5 musicians met thanks to music antropologist, DJ and friend Sebastian “Booty” Carrell (B-music), who was musical coordinator for the New Hamburg festival – where the quintet performed live for the first time (as Intercommunal Orchestra). When the Hamburg project came to an end, they were sure of one thing: the band must live on! 

Grup Şimşek gathered again in 2015 in London and in France; worked on new material and performed live a number of times.  In 2016, Grup Şimşek met again to play more shows, and recorded their first EP: Nem Kaldı – that was released on  March 31st, 2017 on Catapulte and Bongo Joe. After numbers of shows through Europe  during 2 years, the band released their debut album ‘Kar Yağar’ also on the same labels.

Newly reshaped as a quartet due to Piro’s other directions, Derya Yıldırım & Grup Şimşek is the sweetest folk-modern which performs electrified and highly danceable set of Turkish music. It combines Anatolian Folk and Psychedelic moves contaminated by hints of Post progressive jazz & funk. 

Led by Derya Yıldırım’s hypnotizing Saz and vocals, Grup Şimşek deliver their own interpretation of Turkish jewels (by artists such as Selda Bağcan, Barış Manço, Özdemir Erdoğan), but also draw their originality from beautiful compositions and a fantastic ability in improvising.

There are beautifull feelings of waving and ondulations when you get to the universe of Derya Yildirim and Grup Şimşek, just let yourself follow the ‘lightning’ !

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: >
    https://soundcloud.com/deryayildirimofficial/sets/nem-kaldi-1