Title:

Goldfish

----

Toplinks:


----

Text:

Issuing forth from the same rich vein of electronic bands that contains the likes of Groove Armada, Basement Jaxx, Soul II Soul, Leftfield and Massive Attack, South African duo Goldfish Live are creating expansive, enveloping, sumptuously funk-filled music for new and older generations alike.



From their beginnings as music students surfing and chilling on the beaches of coastal Cape Town, Dominic Peters and David Poole have gone on to become one of the most original production teams in recent history, creating award-winning albums and developing a live DJ show that blends recorded sound with live percussion, string, woodwind and brass, blowing through all genres and surpassing all expectations.



2005’s freshman album “Caught In The Loop” first won them global attention with its chilled out, trip-hop electronica vibe. Locking themselves away with a double bass, saxophone and a couple of synths, the pair emerged with a ground breaking long player that spawned tracks like the delicately languorous “The Real Deal”, swing-infected, bass-injected “All Night”, jazz-influenced “Mbira Beat” and the stunning “Egyptology”. It was a collective sound that was picked by Radio 1’s Pete Tong as his Album Of The Summer, marking the band as ones to watch.



After scooping a record-breaking eight nominations at the 2009 South African Music Awards (SAMA) in the wake of sophomore album “Perceptions of Pacha” – named after residence at the legendary Ibiz venue – and winning Best Producer and Best Dance Album categories, Goldfish returned with their third studio album. 2010’s “Get Busy Living” cemented them as one of South Africa’s biggest musical exports worldwide. Touring, producing, remixing with the likes of Fedde Le Grand, supported by everyone from Dr Dre and Faithless to Sebastian Ingrosso, Sander Kleinenberg and Pete Tong – Goldfish were the darlings of funk-pop with an army of fans in all corners of the world.



2013 saw the release of “1 Million Views” with John Mani on lead vocals. The track, subsequently remixed by Bakermat, was a tongue-in-cheek take on music artists’ obsession with social media, leading into their latest album “Three Second Memory”. The album is as close as you can get to musical perfection – “Followers Of The Beat”, “Choose Your Own Adventure”, “Moonwalk Away” and titular track “Three Second Memory” winning Goldfish “Best Pop Act” at the 2014 MTV Africa Music Awards.



In between the music, Goldfish continually tour the planet. From the Sydney Opera House to the Amsterdam Olympic Stadium, from Miami to Sao Paulo to London and beyond, from Glastonbury and Sensation White to Ultra Music Festival Miami and South Africa, 46664, Wakarusa, Mysteryland (US), Electric Forest, Northern Nights, KAABOO, Get Loaded In The Park and sell-out North American tours, Goldfish have continually proven themselves to be one of the most exciting and inspiring live acts around, with an unqualified ability to get the crowd off their feet. With more dates across the Americas and Europe being added to their rapidly expanding tour diary, Goldfish once more look set to prove why they are one of the most exciting, talented, funk-drenched live House bands on the face of the planet.

----

Bottomlinks:

-
  url: >
    https://soundcloud.com/goldfishlive

----

