Title: Hot 8 Brass Band

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

Hot 8 Brass Band are a Grammy Nominated group born out of New Orleans. In their twenty-plus-year career they have toured the globe, sharing their remarkable story and playing their incendiary music, bringing together a roof raising, rambunctious and world-renowned mix of hip hop, funk and inimitable Big Easy jazz. The outfit toasted their 20th Anniversary in 2015, and have lived an incredible story of tragedy and triumph that comes through loud and clear in their life-affirming, party-starting music. Their latest fifth album ‘On The Spot’ (released in March 2017 via Tru Thoughts, to acclaim from The Observer, Songlines, Billboard) commemorated their most extensive year of touring yet, taking them across Europe, Australasia and North America. Packed full of milestone events it included a roof-raising sell out show at London’s Roundhouse, an invitation to perform at the Brighton Festival curated by Kate Tempest, and an unforgettable set opening Glastonbury Festival’s West Holts stage which drew one of the biggest crowds of its time.

Hot 8 have performed and collaborated with artists from Lauryn Hill to Basement Jaxx and Mos Def to the Blind Boys of Alabama, as well as being featured in films and TV shows including the hit HBO series Treme. In their constantly evolving live show, they mix anthemic covers - including their celebrated versions of “Sexual Healing” and “Ghost Town” - with highly creative original songs and charismatic MC-ing, for a beat-heavy brass showdown that honours their city’s musical traditions while forging their own powerful legacy.  

“We are privileged to tour and to tell the stories of life in our city, to keep alive the memories of our band members who have passed, as well as all the musicians who have gone before”, says band leader and tuba player Bennie Pete. “We can’t wait to share this new music and party with our fans, who help us to keep pushing ourselves on”.

Wherever they are, Hot 8 bring the unique, undiluted energy of the New Orleans Second Line parades. Their latest LP captures the energy of live performance like never before, and in the live arena the tunes are set to blow up. Pairing hard-hitting, heart-on-sleeve sentiment with party-fuelling beats, hooks and grooves, Hot 8’s music is buzzing with the live, spontaneous synchronicity which has fuelled their development from the streets of New Orleans to the forefront of the global scene over the last two decades.

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: >
    https://soundcloud.com/the-hot-8-brass-band