Title:

Hannah Wants

----

Toplinks:


----

Text:

A child of the garage generation Hannah Wants has validated herself as a world renowned DJ with some serious credentials.

In 2014 alone Hannah picked up the Best Breakthrough DJ title at the DJ Mag Awards and became Mixmag’s Best Breakthrough DJ and Star of the Year.

Armed with an innate desire and passion to practice the art of DJ'ing from a young age Hannah has worked tirelessly for over a decade to pursue her DJ dream. Throughout this journey Wants has acquired an individual hard-hitting style and true competence behind the decks.

Nourishing her addiction to music the Birmingham (UK) born DJ dedicated the summer of 2010 to Ibiza. Following a number of competition wins, an unexpected headline opportunity at Es Paradis and an invitation to run her own weekly night at Viva, it was there on the white isle that Hannah really started to make a name for herself.

Hannah’s main aim is to build a solid yet unique reputation for her live DJ sets and after a record amount of sell out events over the last twelve months she has dramatically risen from self-taught DJ to an unquestionable worldwide name on the house and bass music scene.

Championing music that is true to herself, Wants further constituted herself as one of the biggest names in dance music with her 2015 Radio 1 residency, her exponentially popular bi-monthly mixtape series and consistent music productions.

Her critically acclaimed release ‘Rhymes’ topped at number 8 UK CHART in 2015 and her releases that followed have continued in their execution.

2015 welcomed her new and self-titled brand ‘What Hannah Wants’ – the titled stages have led headline tours, various festival takeovers around the globe including Glastonbury, Warehouse Project and Lovebox. The ethos behind the What Hannah Wants brand encapsulates what Hannah stands for as an artist; DJ ability, strong stage presence and an ability to harmonize a rave. Hannah’s personally held DJ competition scouts new underground talent and pushes them to the forefront of these prestigious lineups, truly championing what it is to be a DJ and a role model.

In 2015 Wants won Best Bass DJ at the Pacha music awards, Best DJ at the BMA Awards and held the best selling September 2015 Mixmag cover.

With a majestic career already under her belt it’s Hannah’s developing knowledge, skills and experience alongside a true enjoyment of music exploration and giving back to her supporters will see her name remain at the forefront of the electronic music scene.



_wants

----

Bottomlinks:

-
  url: >
    https://soundcloud.com/hannah

----

