Title: Rezz

----

Toplinks: 

----

Text: 

Though young at 22 years of age, REZZ is anything but an amateur. Producing state of the art, genre-bending works, striking a sharp balance between bass heavy and minimal tech compositions, she oozes originality and stands shoulder to shoulder with the very best in the electronic music scene. With a handful of EPs and a full album now under her belt, she's currently on her second solo-headlining tour that has seen sold out shows across the board.

Starting out as a local DJ in her hometown of Niagara Falls, she was still a teen when she decided that music production was the path she would take. After studying sound design extensively at home and psychology as an aid to her creative process, her experimentation, dedication and hard work paid off in paving the way for a long career ahead as a highly regarded producer of down tempo soundscapes.
REZZ’s headstrong decisiveness and clear vision are arguably the keys to her success so far. She began to build a following on Soundcloud with a series of free releases that caught the ears of EDM golden boys Skrillex and deadmau5. Skrillex subsequently brought her talent to the masses by organizing the release of REZZ's debut three-track ‘Insurrection EP’ on OWSLA’s The Nest imprint in 2015, which was critically acclaimed and universally lauded, with REZZ being dubbed a "prodigy" (EDM.com) and the "Queen of the Dark Techno Scene" (MTV) in the media.

In 2016 REZZ answered the calls from her fans and released 'The Silence Is Deafening' EP on deadmau5's mau5trap imprint. This launched REZZ into the upper echelons of the electronic music scene, leading to the creation of the 'Cult of REZZ' fan base. Her follow-up EP on mau5trap in October 2016 'Something Wrong
Here' caught the attention of the international media, as REZZ began selling out shows around the world.
In the summer of 2017, with worldwide intrigue for REZZ piquing, she dropped her full-length debut ‘Mass Manipulation’ album on mau5trap. Brimming with innovative singles and collaborations that consistently portray the menacing soundscapes she is known for, the album truly showcased REZZ's forward thinking and unique mentality. With worldwide and critical acclaim pouring in from the likes of Billboard, Mixmag, Dancing Astronaut, and many more is testament to the fact that REZZ has truly become a tastemaker and trendsetter in the industry.

Since running laps around festival circuits throughout the world, including her massive 'Mass Manipulation' World Tour in 2017, REZZ's ever-evolving and idiosyncratic electro sound and work ethic is only getting stronger. With an arsenal of new music and sold out shows to come, REZZ is looking more focused than ever.

----

Bottomlinks: 

- 
  url: https://soundcloud.com/official-rezz